specs/002-docker-setup/spec.md, before:

# Feature Specification: Docker Configuration for Easy Deployment

**Feature Branch**: `002-docker-setup`
**Created**: 2025-09-20
**Status**: Draft
**Input**: User description: "implement issue #1 according to the issue description"

## Execution Flow (main)
```
1. Parse user description from Input
   → If empty: ERROR "No feature description provided"
2. Extract key concepts from description
   → Identify: actors, actions, data, constraints
3. For each unclear aspect:
   → Mark with [NEEDS CLARIFICATION: specific question]
4. Fill User Scenarios & Testing section
   → If no clear user flow: ERROR "Cannot determine user scenarios"
5. Generate Functional Requirements
   → Each requirement must be testable
   → Mark ambiguous requirements
6. Identify Key Entities (if data involved)
7. Run Review Checklist
   → If any [NEEDS CLARIFICATION]: WARN "Spec has uncertainties"
   → If implementation details found: ERROR "Remove tech details"
8. Return: SUCCESS (spec ready for planning)
```

---

## ⚡ Quick Guidelines
- ✅ Focus on WHAT users need and WHY
- ❌ Avoid HOW to implement (no tech stack, APIs, code structure)
- 👥 Written for business stakeholders, not developers

### Section Requirements
- **Mandatory sections**: Must be completed for every feature
- **Optional sections**: Include only when relevant to the feature
- When a section doesn't apply, remove it entirely (don't leave as "N/A")

### For AI Generation
When creating this spec from a user prompt:
1. **Mark all ambiguities**: Use [NEEDS CLARIFICATION: specific question] for any assumption you'd need to make
2. **Don't guess**: If the prompt doesn't specify something (e.g., "login system" without auth method), mark it
3. **Think like a tester**: Every vague requirement should fail the "testable and unambiguous" checklist item
4. **Common underspecified areas**:
   - User types and permissions
   - Data retention/deletion policies
   - Performance targets and scale
   - Error handling behaviors
   - Integration requirements
   - Security/compliance needs

---

## User Scenarios & Testing *(mandatory)*

### Primary User Story
As a developer or system administrator, I want to easily deploy and run the simple-sync service in a containerized environment so that I can quickly set up development environments and production deployments without worrying about system dependencies or configuration complexity.

### Acceptance Scenarios
1. **Given** a developer has Docker installed on their system, **When** they run `docker-compose up` in the project directory, **Then** the simple-sync service starts successfully and is accessible on localhost:8080
2. **Given** the service is running in Docker, **When** a user makes a health check request, **Then** the service responds indicating it is healthy and operational
3. **Given** a developer needs to configure the service, **When** they set environment variables like JWT_SECRET and PORT, **Then** the service uses those configurations correctly
4. **Given** the service is running in Docker, **When** a user attempts to access protected endpoints, **Then** authentication works as expected with JWT tokens

### Edge Cases
- What happens when required environment variables are not provided?
- How does the system handle port conflicts on the host machine?
- What happens when the Docker build fails due to missing dependencies?
- How does the system behave when container resources are constrained?

## Requirements *(mandatory)*

### Functional Requirements
- **FR-001**: System MUST provide containerized deployment that allows users to run the service with a single command
- **FR-002**: System MUST be accessible on localhost:8080 after successful container startup
- **FR-003**: System MUST accept JWT_SECRET as an environment variable for authentication configuration
- **FR-004**: System MUST accept PORT as an environment variable to configure the service port
- **FR-005**: System MUST respond to health check requests when running in containers
- **FR-006**: System MUST maintain all existing functionality (authentication, event storage) when running in containers
- **FR-007**: System MUST provide clear documentation for users to understand how to deploy using containers

---

## Review & Acceptance Checklist
*GATE: Automated checks run during main() execution*

### Content Quality
- [ ] No implementation details (languages, frameworks, APIs)
- [ ] Focused on user value and business needs
- [ ] Written for non-technical stakeholders
- [ ] All mandatory sections completed

### Requirement Completeness
- [ ] No [NEEDS CLARIFICATION] markers remain
- [ ] Requirements are testable and unambiguous
- [ ] Success criteria are measurable
- [ ] Scope is clearly bounded
- [ ] Dependencies and assumptions identified

---

## Execution Status
*Updated by main() during processing*

- [ ] User description parsed
- [ ] Key concepts extracted
- [ ] Ambiguities marked
- [ ] User scenarios defined
- [ ] Requirements generated
- [ ] Entities identified
- [ ] Review checklist passed

---

Commit message:

docs: specify Go 1.25 requirement for Docker builds
- Update plan.md to specify Go 1.25 for Docker builds
- Add technical requirement TR-001 in spec.md for Go 1.25
- Ensure consistency between research.md and plan.md

specs/002-docker-setup/spec.md, after:

# Feature Specification: Docker Configuration for Easy Deployment

**Feature Branch**: `002-docker-setup`
**Created**: 2025-09-20
**Status**: Draft
**Input**: User description: "implement issue #1 according to the issue description"

## Execution Flow (main)
```
1. Parse user description from Input
   → If empty: ERROR "No feature description provided"
2. Extract key concepts from description
   → Identify: actors, actions, data, constraints
3. For each unclear aspect:
   → Mark with [NEEDS CLARIFICATION: specific question]
4. Fill User Scenarios & Testing section
   → If no clear user flow: ERROR "Cannot determine user scenarios"
5. Generate Functional Requirements
   → Each requirement must be testable
   → Mark ambiguous requirements
6. Identify Key Entities (if data involved)
7. Run Review Checklist
   → If any [NEEDS CLARIFICATION]: WARN "Spec has uncertainties"
   → If implementation details found: ERROR "Remove tech details"
8. Return: SUCCESS (spec ready for planning)
```

---

## ⚡ Quick Guidelines
- ✅ Focus on WHAT users need and WHY
- ❌ Avoid HOW to implement (no tech stack, APIs, code structure)
- 👥 Written for business stakeholders, not developers

### Section Requirements
- **Mandatory sections**: Must be completed for every feature
- **Optional sections**: Include only when relevant to the feature
- When a section doesn't apply, remove it entirely (don't leave as "N/A")

### For AI Generation
When creating this spec from a user prompt:
1. **Mark all ambiguities**: Use [NEEDS CLARIFICATION: specific question] for any assumption you'd need to make
2. **Don't guess**: If the prompt doesn't specify something (e.g., "login system" without auth method), mark it
3. **Think like a tester**: Every vague requirement should fail the "testable and unambiguous" checklist item
4. **Common underspecified areas**:
   - User types and permissions
   - Data retention/deletion policies
   - Performance targets and scale
   - Error handling behaviors
   - Integration requirements
   - Security/compliance needs

---

## User Scenarios & Testing *(mandatory)*

### Primary User Story
As a developer or system administrator, I want to easily deploy and run the simple-sync service in a containerized environment so that I can quickly set up development environments and production deployments without worrying about system dependencies or configuration complexity.

### Acceptance Scenarios
1. **Given** a developer has Docker installed on their system, **When** they run `docker-compose up` in the project directory, **Then** the simple-sync service starts successfully and is accessible on localhost:8080
2. **Given** the service is running in Docker, **When** a user makes a health check request, **Then** the service responds indicating it is healthy and operational
3. **Given** a developer needs to configure the service, **When** they set environment variables like JWT_SECRET and PORT, **Then** the service uses those configurations correctly
4. **Given** the service is running in Docker, **When** a user attempts to access protected endpoints, **Then** authentication works as expected with JWT tokens

### Edge Cases
- What happens when required environment variables are not provided?
- How does the system handle port conflicts on the host machine?
- What happens when the Docker build fails due to missing dependencies?
- How does the system behave when container resources are constrained?

## Requirements *(mandatory)*

### Functional Requirements
- **FR-001**: System MUST provide containerized deployment that allows users to run the service with a single command
- **FR-002**: System MUST be accessible on localhost:8080 after successful container startup
- **FR-003**: System MUST accept JWT_SECRET as an environment variable for authentication configuration
- **FR-004**: System MUST accept PORT as an environment variable to configure the service port
- **FR-005**: System MUST respond to health check requests when running in containers
- **FR-006**: System MUST maintain all existing functionality (authentication, event storage) when running in containers
- **FR-007**: System MUST provide clear documentation for users to understand how to deploy using containers
- **TR-001**: Docker image MUST be built using Go 1.25 for the build stage

---

## Review & Acceptance Checklist
*GATE: Automated checks run during main() execution*

### Content Quality
- [ ] No implementation details (languages, frameworks, APIs)
- [ ] Focused on user value and business needs
- [ ] Written for non-technical stakeholders
- [ ] All mandatory sections completed

### Requirement Completeness
- [ ] No [NEEDS CLARIFICATION] markers remain
- [ ] Requirements are testable and unambiguous
- [ ] Success criteria are measurable
- [ ] Scope is clearly bounded
- [ ] Dependencies and assumptions identified

---

## Execution Status
*Updated by main() during processing*

- [ ] User description parsed
- [ ] Key concepts extracted
- [ ] Ambiguities marked
- [ ] User scenarios defined
- [ ] Requirements generated
- [ ] Entities identified
- [ ] Review checklist passed

---
