docs/src/content/docs/acl.mdx, before:

---
title: Access Control List (ACL)
description: Specification for the Access Control List system in Simple Sync
---
import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

The Access Control List (ACL) defines the relationships between users, items, and actions. It determines which users are allowed to perform which actions on which items.

## Default Behavior

*   All users can view all events. This means that Simple Sync is **only** appropriate for situations where **all** users of the system can be trusted to view **all** data in the system.
*   By default, a user cannot perform any action on any item unless explicitly allowed by an ACL rule (deny all by default).
     * Note: there is a difference between viewing items and performing actions on items. All users can view all items because they can read all the events. However, they can not submit new events that perform actions on items without ACL rules to allow it.
*   The `.root` user has implicit access to all items and actions, bypassing ACL checks.

## ACL Structure

ACL rules are tracked as events on a special `.acl` item with an `.acl.addRule` action. Each ACL rule has the following three fields, all of which must be non-empty strings:
- `user`
- `item`
- `action`

Each field supports:
- Specific values (e.g., user ID, item ID, action name)
- Prefix wildcards (e.g., `admin.*`, `task.*`, `edit.*`)
- Wildcard (`*`) for all matches

ACL events are submitted via the dedicated [`POST /api/v1/acl`](/simple-sync/api/v1#post-apiv1acl) endpoint, which automatically sets the current timestamp and ensures proper validation. ACL events submitted via [`POST /api/v1/events`](/simple-sync/api/v1#post-apiv1events) are rejected to prevent timestamp manipulation. 

## Wildcard Support

The `user`, `item`, and `action` fields support the wildcard (`*`) to match all, and also support prefix-based wildcards (e.g., `task.*`, `admin.*`, `edit.*`) to match all that start with the specified prefix.

## Rule Evaluation

ACL rules are evaluated based on specificity. For a given user, item, and action, the rule with the highest specificity score determines whether the action is allowed or denied. Specificity is calculated as the character count of the user, item, and action portions of a matching rule (wildcards are worth 0.5 specificity points).

1. Item specificity takes first precedence.
2. If there is a tie in item specificity, user specificity takes second precedence.
3. If there is a tie in user specificity, action specificity takes third precedence.
4. If there is still a tie, the most recently added rule (highest timestamp) takes precedence.

If no rule matches, the default behavior (deny all actions) applies.

### Specificity Examples

For a request by user `user.123` to perform `edit` on item `task.456`:

| Rule | Item     | User      | Action | Item Score | User Score | Action Score |
|------|----------|-----------|--------|------------|------------|--------------|
| A    | \*       | \*        | \*     | 0.5        | 0.5        | 0.5          |
| B    | \*       | user.123  | \*     | 0.5        | 8          | 0.5          |
| C    | task.\*  | \*        | \*     | 5.5        | 0.5        | 0.5          |
| D    | \*       | \*        | edit   | 0.5        | 0.5        | 4            |

Compare item specificity: Rule C (5.5) > others (0.5) → Rule C wins.

For item `task.456` and action `edit`, assuming no higher item matches:

| Rule | Item     | User | Action | Item Score | User Score | Action Score |
|------|----------|------|--------|------------|------------|--------------|
| E    | task.\*  | \*   | edit   | 5.5        | 0.5        | 4            |
| F    | \*       | \*   | edit   | 0.5        | 0.5        | 4            |

Item specificity: Rule E (5.5) > Rule F (0.5) → Rule E wins.

For item `task.456`, user `admin.123`, action `edit`, with item specificity tied:

| Rule | Item     | User      | Action | Item Score | User Score | Action Score |
|------|----------|-----------|--------|------------|------------|--------------|
| G    | task.\*  | \*        | \*     | 5.5        | 0.5        | 0.5          |
| H    | task.\*  | admin.\*  | \*     | 5.5        | 6.5        | 0.5          |

Item specificity tied (5.5), compare user: Rule H (6.5) > Rule G (0.5) → Rule H wins.

For item `task.456`, user `admin.123`, action `edit.description`, with item and user specificity tied:

| Rule | Item     | User      | Action    | Item Score | User Score | Action Score |
|------|----------|-----------|-----------|------------|------------|--------------|
| I    | task.\*  | admin.\*  | \*        | 5.5        | 6.5        | 0.5          |
| J    | task.\*  | admin.\*  | edit.\*   | 5.5        | 6.5        | 5.5          |

Item and user tied, compare action: Rule J (5.5) > Rule I (0.5) → Rule J wins.

## Rule Examples

To allow all users to mark "task.123" as complete:

```json
{
  "uuid": "01997af2-df11-73b3-8329-e5c3affc9a05",
  "timestamp": 1758704361233,
  "user": "admin.user1",
  "item": ".acl",
  "action": ".acl.addRule",
  "payload": "{\"user\": \"*\", \"item\": \"task.123\", \"action\": \"markComplete\", \"type\": \"allow\"}"
}
```

To allow user "user.456" to edit any item:

```json
{
  "uuid": "01997af3-4299-7be7-8bd7-d01636e06d73",
  "timestamp": 1758704386713,
  "user": "admin.user1",
  "item": ".acl",
  "action": ".acl.addRule",
  "payload": "{\"user\": \"user.456\", \"item\": \"*\", \"action\": \"edit\", \"type\": \"allow\"}"
}
```

To allow all admin users to perform any delete action on any task:

```json
{
  "uuid": "01997af3-7a2f-7b65-9055-8439f87d7450",
  "timestamp": 1758704400943,
  "user": "admin.user1",
  "item": ".acl",
  "action": ".acl.addRule",
  "payload": "{\"user\": \"admin.*\", \"item\": \"task.*\", \"action\": \"delete.*\", \"type\": \"allow\"}"
}
```

## ACL Management

ACL rules are managed by submitting ACL rules to the dedicated [`POST /api/v1/acl`](/simple-sync/api/v1#post-apiv1acl) endpoint.

ACL events submitted via [`POST /api/v1/events`](/simple-sync/api/v1#post-apiv1events) are rejected. The current ACL state can be inferred from the authoritative event history by filtering for `.acl` events. See the [v1 API Specification](/simple-sync/api/v1) for details on the dedicated ACL endpoint.

**Note:** ACL submission requires appropriate permissions based on existing rules. The `.root` user has implicit access to submit any ACL events.

Commit message:

docs: clarify ACL action values can be custom strings
- Add Action Values section explaining custom action support
- Clarify that action names can be any strings beyond examples

docs/src/content/docs/acl.mdx, after:

---
title: Access Control List (ACL)
description: Specification for the Access Control List system in Simple Sync
---
import { Aside } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

The Access Control List (ACL) defines the relationships between users, items, and actions. It determines which users are allowed to perform which actions on which items.

## Default Behavior

*   All users can view all events. This means that Simple Sync is **only** appropriate for situations where **all** users of the system can be trusted to view **all** data in the system.
*   By default, a user cannot perform any action on any item unless explicitly allowed by an ACL rule (deny all by default).
     * Note: there is a difference between viewing items and performing actions on items. All users can view all items because they can read all the events. However, they can not submit new events that perform actions on items without ACL rules to allow it.
*   The `.root` user has implicit access to all items and actions, bypassing ACL checks.

## ACL Structure

ACL rules are tracked as events on a special `.acl` item with an `.acl.addRule` action. Each ACL rule has the following three fields, all of which must be non-empty strings:
- `user`
- `item`
- `action`

Each field supports:
- Specific values (e.g., user ID, item ID, action name)
- Prefix wildcards (e.g., `admin.*`, `task.*`, `edit.*`)
- Wildcard (`*`) for all matches

ACL events are submitted via the dedicated [`POST /api/v1/acl`](/simple-sync/api/v1#post-apiv1acl) endpoint, which automatically sets the current timestamp and ensures proper validation. ACL events submitted via [`POST /api/v1/events`](/simple-sync/api/v1#post-apiv1events) are rejected to prevent timestamp manipulation. 

## Wildcard Support

The `user`, `item`, and `action` fields support the wildcard (`*`) to match all, and also support prefix-based wildcards (e.g., `task.*`, `admin.*`, `edit.*`) to match all that start with the specified prefix.

## Rule Evaluation

ACL rules are evaluated based on specificity. For a given user, item, and action, the rule with the highest specificity score determines whether the action is allowed or denied. Specificity is calculated as the character count of the user, item, and action portions of a matching rule (wildcards are worth 0.5 specificity points).

1. Item specificity takes first precedence.
2. If there is a tie in item specificity, user specificity takes second precedence.
3. If there is a tie in user specificity, action specificity takes third precedence.
4. If there is still a tie, the most recently added rule (highest timestamp) takes precedence.

If no rule matches, the default behavior (deny all actions) applies.

### Specificity Examples

For a request by user `user.123` to perform `edit` on item `task.456`:

| Rule | Item     | User      | Action | Item Score | User Score | Action Score |
|------|----------|-----------|--------|------------|------------|--------------|
| A    | \*       | \*        | \*     | 0.5        | 0.5        | 0.5          |
| B    | \*       | user.123  | \*     | 0.5        | 8          | 0.5          |
| C    | task.\*  | \*        | \*     | 5.5        | 0.5        | 0.5          |
| D    | \*       | \*        | edit   | 0.5        | 0.5        | 4            |

Compare item specificity: Rule C (5.5) > others (0.5) → Rule C wins.

For item `task.456` and action `edit`, assuming no higher item matches:

| Rule | Item     | User | Action | Item Score | User Score | Action Score |
|------|----------|------|--------|------------|------------|--------------|
| E    | task.\*  | \*   | edit   | 5.5        | 0.5        | 4            |
| F    | \*       | \*   | edit   | 0.5        | 0.5        | 4            |

Item specificity: Rule E (5.5) > Rule F (0.5) → Rule E wins.

For item `task.456`, user `admin.123`, action `edit`, with item specificity tied:

| Rule | Item     | User      | Action | Item Score | User Score | Action Score |
|------|----------|-----------|--------|------------|------------|--------------|
| G    | task.\*  | \*        | \*     | 5.5        | 0.5        | 0.5          |
| H    | task.\*  | admin.\*  | \*     | 5.5        | 6.5        | 0.5          |

Item specificity tied (5.5), compare user: Rule H (6.5) > Rule G (0.5) → Rule H wins.

For item `task.456`, user `admin.123`, action `edit.description`, with item and user specificity tied:

| Rule | Item     | User      | Action    | Item Score | User Score | Action Score |
|------|----------|-----------|-----------|------------|------------|--------------|
| I    | task.\*  | admin.\*  | \*        | 5.5        | 6.5        | 0.5          |
| J    | task.\*  | admin.\*  | edit.\*   | 5.5        | 6.5        | 5.5          |

Item and user tied, compare action: Rule J (5.5) > Rule I (0.5) → Rule J wins.

## Action Values

Action values in ACL rules can be any custom string that matches the actions your application uses. The examples below show common patterns, but you can use any action names that make sense for your use case (e.g., `create`, `update`, `delete`, `publish`, `archive`, or domain-specific actions like `markComplete`, `assign`, `review`).

## Rule Examples

To allow all users to mark "task.123" as complete:

```json
{
  "uuid": "01997af2-df11-73b3-8329-e5c3affc9a05",
  "timestamp": 1758704361233,
  "user": "admin.user1",
  "item": ".acl",
  "action": ".acl.addRule",
  "payload": "{\"user\": \"*\", \"item\": \"task.123\", \"action\": \"markComplete\", \"type\": \"allow\"}"
}
```

To allow user "user.456" to edit any item:

```json
{
  "uuid": "01997af3-4299-7be7-8bd7-d01636e06d73",
  "timestamp": 1758704386713,
  "user": "admin.user1",
  "item": ".acl",
  "action": ".acl.addRule",
  "payload": "{\"user\": \"user.456\", \"item\": \"*\", \"action\": \"edit\", \"type\": \"allow\"}"
}
```

To allow all admin users to perform any delete action on any task:

```json
{
  "uuid": "01997af3-7a2f-7b65-9055-8439f87d7450",
  "timestamp": 1758704400943,
  "user": "admin.user1",
  "item": ".acl",
  "action": ".acl.addRule",
  "payload": "{\"user\": \"admin.*\", \"item\": \"task.*\", \"action\": \"delete.*\", \"type\": \"allow\"}"
}
```

## ACL Management

ACL rules are managed by submitting ACL rules to the dedicated [`POST /api/v1/acl`](/simple-sync/api/v1#post-apiv1acl) endpoint.

ACL events submitted via [`POST /api/v1/events`](/simple-sync/api/v1#post-apiv1events) are rejected. The current ACL state can be inferred from the authoritative event history by filtering for `.acl` events. See the [v1 API Specification](/simple-sync/api/v1) for details on the dedicated ACL endpoint.

**Note:** ACL submission requires appropriate permissions based on existing rules. The `.root` user has implicit access to submit any ACL events.
