docs/src/content/docs/internal-events.mdx, before:

---
title: Internal Events
description: Documentation for internal events used in Simple Sync for special functionality and audit trails.
---

Any event that uses a `.` prefix for the item or action is **reserved** for internal usage.

Internal events are used in two ways.

First, to allow users to trigger special functionality within the server. These events are marked **Trigger: User** below.

Second, to allow the server to create an audit history for all actions triggered through the API. These events are marked **Trigger: API** below. These events will **always** be rejected if users attempt to add them.

## ACL

**Trigger: API**

The `.acl` item is used for updating the [ACL](/simple-sync/acl). ACL events are created automatically by the server when users submit ACL rules via the dedicated `POST /api/v1/acl` endpoint. The payload contains a valid ACL rule with `user`, `item`, and `action` fields. The event's `action` is always `.acl.allow` (deny rules are not currently supported). These events are timestamped with the current server time to prevent historical rule injection.

## Users

The `.user.` item prefix is used for events related to user administration and authentication.

### Create User

**Trigger: User**

The `.user.create` action is used for creating new users. The new user's ID is given in the event's `item` field (for example `"item": ".user.bob"`). If the given user ID already exists, the event is rejected.

### Generate User Token

**Trigger: API**

The `.user.generateToken` action is used to log calls to the `/api/v1/user/generateToken` API endpoint. 

### Exchange User Token

**Trigger: API**

The `.user.exchangeToken` action is used to log calls to the `/api/v1/user/exchangeToken` API endpoint. 

### Reset User Key

**Trigger: API**

The `.user.resetKey` action is used to log calls to the `/api/v1/user/resetKey` API endpoint.

Commit message:

fix: support deny rules in ACL endpoint
- Added 'type' field to ACLEvent struct (allow/deny)
- Updated validation to require valid type
- Modified handler to create .acl.allow or .acl.deny events based on type
- Updated all tests, contracts, docs to include type field
- Removed incorrect note about deny rules not being supported
- All ACL rules now support both allow and deny types

docs/src/content/docs/internal-events.mdx, after:

---
title: Internal Events
description: Documentation for internal events used in Simple Sync for special functionality and audit trails.
---

Any event that uses a `.` prefix for the item or action is **reserved** for internal usage.

Internal events are used in two ways.

First, to allow users to trigger special functionality within the server. These events are marked **Trigger: User** below.

Second, to allow the server to create an audit history for all actions triggered through the API. These events are marked **Trigger: API** below. These events will **always** be rejected if users attempt to add them.

## ACL

**Trigger: API**

The `.acl` item is used for updating the [ACL](/simple-sync/acl). ACL events are created automatically by the server when users submit ACL rules via the dedicated `POST /api/v1/acl` endpoint. The payload contains a valid ACL rule with `user`, `item`, `action`, and `type` fields. The event's `action` is either `.acl.allow` or `.acl.deny` based on the rule type. These events are timestamped with the current server time to prevent historical rule injection.

## Users

The `.user.` item prefix is used for events related to user administration and authentication.

### Create User

**Trigger: User**

The `.user.create` action is used for creating new users. The new user's ID is given in the event's `item` field (for example `"item": ".user.bob"`). If the given user ID already exists, the event is rejected.

### Generate User Token

**Trigger: API**

The `.user.generateToken` action is used to log calls to the `/api/v1/user/generateToken` API endpoint. 

### Exchange User Token

**Trigger: API**

The `.user.exchangeToken` action is used to log calls to the `/api/v1/user/exchangeToken` API endpoint. 

### Reset User Key

**Trigger: API**

The `.user.resetKey` action is used to log calls to the `/api/v1/user/resetKey` API endpoint.
